---
title: recheck v4.3.0
description: recheck v4.3.0 is released
authors:
  - makenowjust
---

Here, we announce the new release of recheck v4.3.0.

It is a small release to go forward to a milestone.
However, it has some important changes and improvements.
We will describe them.

You could see [the complete CHANGELOG](https://github.com/makenowjust-labs/recheck/releases/tag/v4.3.0) for detailed informations.

<!-- truncate -->

## New Features

### `worker` backend for NPM package

The `recheck` NPM package now contains `worker` backend.
It is pure JavaScript (Scala.js build) backend with [`worker_threads`](https://nodejs.org/api/worker_threads.html) (for Node.js) or [Web Workers API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API) (for browsers).
In other words, you can use `recheck` in asynchronous on JavaScript without any external commands depending on the settings.
This should allow `recheck` to be used in many more environments.

You can use `worker` backend explicitly by the following way:

```bash
$ RECHECK_BACKEND=worker node
> await require('recheck').check('^(a|a)*$', '')
```

Especially, it is very comfortable to use in a browser.
The code to run on workers is bundled inline, so no additional configuration is required to use.

However, Scala.js build is bundled twice for usual environment and workers.
As a result, a file size after building may be larger than before.
In order to avoid this, we consider it is effective to use conditional exports and provide a build of the ES module version that allows tree shaking.
This will be addressed in the next version.

## Changes

### Rename `hybrid` to `auto`

Initially, we thought the name `hybrid` would be appropriate, since it uses both fuzzing and automata theory based algorithms.
However, this name may have given a wrong impression, because the implementation actually automatically decides which algorithm is better.

To deal with this problem, we renamed `hybrid` to `auto`.

### Rename `labo` to `labs`

`MakeNowJust-Labo` is renamed to `makenowjust-labs` now, and `codes.quine.labo` namespace is also renamed to `codes.quine.labs`.
Please update dependencies and link names.

```diff
-libraryDependencies += "codes.quine.labo" %% "recheck-core" % "4.2.2"
+libraryDependencies += "codes.quine.labs" %% "recheck-core" % "4.3.0"
```

## Miscellaneous

### Website renewal

The website has been completely renewed using [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io).
Thanks Docusaurus team for providing such a good documentation tool.

The new website has detailed usages as a library and ESLint plugin, and a playground where all options can now be specified.
It will be much more convenient than before.

## P.S.

We continue to develop the project to release `recheck` v5.
Some of the features planned for v5 and more futures are as follows:

- A new parser to parse other dialect than JavaScript
- To support to analysis other language's regex
- To suggest a new regex to prevent ReDoS (auto repairing)

Thank you for your interesting!
