website/docs/usage/as-javascript-library.mdx, before:

---
id: as-javascript-library
title: As JavaScript Library
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

Describes how to use `recheck` as a JavaScript/TypeScript library.

## Install

The NPM package of `recheck` is named `recheck` simply. You can install the package with the following command.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="npm" label="NPM">

```bash
npm install recheck
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="yarb" label="Yarn">

```bash
yarn add recheck
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Finished the installation, you are going to play with the `recheck`.

## Usage

`recheck` exposes two methods: `check` and `checkSync`.
`check` is an asynchronous version of the entry point of this library.
`checkSync` is similar to `check`, but it is the synchronous version.
As stated below, `check` invokes the external CLI command as backend if possible, so it is faster and more useful than the `checkSync`,
thus we recommend using the `check`.

See the below TypeScript API definition (The entire `d.ts` file is [here](https://github.com/MakeNowJust-Labo/recheck/blob/main/packages/recheck/index.d.ts)).

```tsx
export function check(
  source: string,
  flags: string,
  params?: Parameters & HasAbortSignal
): Promise<Diagnostics>;

export function checkSync(
  source: string,
  flags: string,
  params?: Parameters
): Diagnostics;
```

The first argument `source` is a source string of `RegExp` (corresponding to [`RegExp.prototype.source`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/source) in JavaScript).
And, the second argument `flags` is a flags string of `RegExp` (corresponding to [`RegExp.prototype.flags`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/flags) in JavaScript too).
The third optional argument `params` is an object of parameters to specify checker behavior.

To check the ReDoS vulnerability in `/^(a|a)*$/`, then you should use this library in such a following way.

```tsx
import { check } from "recheck";

await check("^(a|a)*$", "");
```

:::info

See [this page](parameters.md) for detailed information on `Parameters` value.

:::

The result value of the `check` is called `Diagnostics`.
Though it has many fields, the most important one is `status`. This field takes one of the three values.

- `'safe'` means the given regular expression seems safe at least in this checking.
- `'vulnerable'` means vulnerability in the given regular expression is found.
- `'unknown'` means something wrong happened in checking (timeout, cancel, or error).

:::info

See [this page](diagnostics.md) for detailed information on `Diagnostics` value.

:::

### Cancel

The third argument `check` has the `HasAbortSignal` type. This type has the following signature.

```tsx
export type HasAbortSignal = {
  signal?: AbortSignal;
};
```

`AbortSignal` is the standard Web API to abort some operations (If you don’t know this, please see [the MDN document](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AbortSignal).) You can use this like in the standard way.

```tsx
import { check } from "recheck";

const controller = new AbortController();
const signal = controller.signal;

const sleep = (ms: number) => new Promise((resolve) => setTimeout(resolve, ms));

// Aborts `check` after 100 ms if it is not finished.
await Promise.all([
  check("^a+a+$", "", { signal }),
  sleep(100).then(() => controller.abort()),
]);
```

:::caution

There is the `timeout` parameter to specify timeout seconds.
Please use this instead of the manual way.

:::

:::note

The `signal` parameter works only on the external CLI command backend.
If you use pure JavaScript backend or for the same reason synchronous API, the `signal` parameter is ignored simply.

:::

## Backend

The JavaScript library is just a wrapper for the `recheck` CLI and Scala.js build. You can specify the backend via the `RECHECK_BACKEND` environment variable. There are four options to the `RECHECK_BACKEND` value.

- `RECHECK_BACKEND=auto` (default)

  Tries `native` and `java` backends sequentially.
  If there is a possible backend, it uses this. Otherwise, it uses `pure` backend as a fallback.

- `RECHECK_BACKEND=native`

  Uses the Graal `native-image` build contained by `recheck-${os}-${arch}` package. When the platform is not supported, it will be failed.
  The following table shows supported platforms.

  | package name        | OS      | CPU    |
  | ------------------- | ------- | ------ |
  | recheck-linux-x64   | Linux   | x86-64 |
  | recheck-macos-x64   | macOS   | x86-64 |
  | recheck-windows-x64 | Windows | x86-64 |

  You can specify the binary path via the `RECHECK_BIN` environment variable manually.

- `RECHECK_BACKEND=java`

  Uses the JAR build contained by the `recheck-jar` package with the `java` command. When the system does not have the `java` command, it will be failed.

  This backend is a bit slow for starting up, but the checking time is expected to be faster than other backends if the process lives a long time.

  You can specify the archive path via the `RECHECK_JAR` environment variable manually.

- `RECHECK_BACKEND=pure`

  Uses the Scala.js build embedded in the `recheck` package. This is the last resort backend. We expect this backend works everywhere.

The `java` and `native` backends are the external CLI command backend. They have some better features than the `pure` backend.

- Supports the `signal` parameter to cancel checking.
- Supports recall validation.
- Checks in true asynchronous. Although the `pure` backend has asynchronous API, it blocks the process, unfortunately.
- Works with multiple threads. On the external CLI command backend, it can check multiple regular expressions at once.

:::note

The synchronous API `checkSync` works on the `pure` backend at any time.

:::

## Use on Browser

`recheck` package supports the browser environment of course. However, it only supports the `pure` backend due to browser limitations.

The bundle for browsers is named `browser.js` in the `recheck` package, and `package.json` has the `browser` field. Most bundlers (`webpack`, `rollup`, `parcel`, etc) support this field, but additional configurations may be needed.

If you want to work `recheck` in asynchronous on browser, [Web Workers API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API) may help you.

Commit message:

Update docs about worker backend

website/docs/usage/as-javascript-library.mdx, after:

---
id: as-javascript-library
title: As JavaScript Library
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

Describes how to use `recheck` as a JavaScript/TypeScript library.

## Install

The NPM package of `recheck` is named `recheck` simply. You can install the package with the following command.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="npm" label="NPM">

```bash
npm install recheck
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="yarb" label="Yarn">

```bash
yarn add recheck
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Finished the installation, you are going to play with the `recheck`.

## Usage

`recheck` exposes two methods: `check` and `checkSync`.
`check` is an asynchronous version of the entry point of this library.
`checkSync` is similar to `check`, but it is the synchronous version.
As stated below, `check` invokes the external CLI command as backend if possible, so it is faster and more useful than the `checkSync`,
thus we recommend using the `check`.

See the below TypeScript API definition (The entire `d.ts` file is [here](https://github.com/MakeNowJust-Labo/recheck/blob/main/packages/recheck/index.d.ts)).

```tsx
export function check(
  source: string,
  flags: string,
  params?: Parameters & HasAbortSignal
): Promise<Diagnostics>;

export function checkSync(
  source: string,
  flags: string,
  params?: Parameters
): Diagnostics;
```

The first argument `source` is a source string of `RegExp` (corresponding to [`RegExp.prototype.source`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/source) in JavaScript).
And, the second argument `flags` is a flags string of `RegExp` (corresponding to [`RegExp.prototype.flags`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/flags) in JavaScript too).
The third optional argument `params` is an object of parameters to specify checker behavior.

To check the ReDoS vulnerability in `/^(a|a)*$/`, then you should use this library in such a following way.

```tsx
import { check } from "recheck";

await check("^(a|a)*$", "");
```

:::info

See [this page](parameters.md) for detailed information on `Parameters` value.

:::

The result value of the `check` is called `Diagnostics`.
Though it has many fields, the most important one is `status`. This field takes one of the three values.

- `'safe'` means the given regular expression seems safe at least in this checking.
- `'vulnerable'` means vulnerability in the given regular expression is found.
- `'unknown'` means something wrong happened in checking (timeout, cancel, or error).

:::info

See [this page](diagnostics.md) for detailed information on `Diagnostics` value.

:::

### Cancel

The third argument `check` has the `HasAbortSignal` type. This type has the following signature.

```tsx
export type HasAbortSignal = {
  signal?: AbortSignal;
};
```

`AbortSignal` is the standard Web API to abort some operations (If you don’t know this, please see [the MDN document](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AbortSignal).) You can use this like in the standard way.

```tsx
import { check } from "recheck";

const controller = new AbortController();
const signal = controller.signal;

const sleep = (ms: number) => new Promise((resolve) => setTimeout(resolve, ms));

// Aborts `check` after 100 ms if it is not finished.
await Promise.all([
  check("^a+a+$", "", { signal }),
  sleep(100).then(() => controller.abort()),
]);
```

:::caution

There is the `timeout` parameter to specify timeout seconds.
Please use this instead of the manual way.

:::

:::note

The `signal` parameter works only on the external CLI command backend.
If you use pure JavaScript backend or for the same reason synchronous API, the `signal` parameter is ignored simply.

:::

## Backend

The JavaScript library is just a wrapper for the `recheck` CLI and Scala.js build. You can specify the backend via the `RECHECK_BACKEND` environment variable. There are four options to the `RECHECK_BACKEND` value.

- `RECHECK_BACKEND=auto` (default)

  Tries `native` and `java` backends sequentially.
  If there is a possible backend, it uses this. Otherwise, it uses `worker` backend as a fallback.

- `RECHECK_BACKEND=native`

  Uses the Graal `native-image` build contained by `recheck-${os}-${arch}` package. When the platform is not supported, it will be failed.
  The following table shows supported platforms.

  | package name        | OS      | CPU    |
  | ------------------- | ------- | ------ |
  | recheck-linux-x64   | Linux   | x86-64 |
  | recheck-macos-x64   | macOS   | x86-64 |
  | recheck-windows-x64 | Windows | x86-64 |

  You can specify the binary path via the `RECHECK_BIN` environment variable manually.

- `RECHECK_BACKEND=java`

  Uses the JAR build contained by the `recheck-jar` package with the `java` command. When the system does not have the `java` command, it will be failed.

  This backend is a bit slow for starting up, but the checking time is expected to be faster than other backends if the process lives a long time.

  You can specify the archive path via the `RECHECK_JAR` environment variable manually.

- `RECHECK_BACKEND=worker`

  Uses the Scala.js build embedded in the `recheck` package with running on the [Web Worker](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Using_web_workers) or [`worker_threads`](https://nodejs.org/api/worker_threads.html) module.

  It does not block the main process, but it still has some restriction.

- `RECHECK_BACKEND=pure`

  Uses the Scala.js build embedded in the `recheck` package with running on the main thread.

  This is the last resort backend. It blocks the process, but we expect this backend works everywhere.

The `java` and `native` backends are the external CLI command backend. They have some better features than the `worker` and `pure` backend.

- Supports the `signal` parameter to cancel checking. `worker` also supports this feature.
- Supports recall validation. `worker` backend does not support this feature for now.
- Checks in true asynchronous. Although we can use the `pure` as a backend of the asynchronous API, it blocks the process, unfortunately. However, `worker` does not.
- Works with multiple threads. On the external CLI command backend, it can check multiple regular expressions at once.

:::note

The synchronous API `checkSync` works on the `pure` backend at any time.

:::

## Use on Browser

`recheck` package supports the browser environment of course. It only supports the `worker` and `pure` backend because browsers cannot spawn the external command.

`check` uses `worker` backend at any time, and `checkSync` uses `pure` backend. We cannot switch the backend by the some environment variables for now.

The bundle for browsers is named `lib/browser.js` in the `recheck` package, and `package.json` has the `browser` field. Most bundlers (`webpack`, `rollup`, `parcel`, etc) support this field, but additional configurations may be needed.
